
<h3>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td><b>2 minutes read</b></td>
      <td style={{ paddingLeft: 40 }}><b> Level: Intermediate</b></td>
      <td style={{ paddingLeft: 40 }}><b>Last Updated: December 2025</b></td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</h3>

# Predefined Contact Variables in Glific

**Glific allows you to store an unlimited number of contact variables. You can create as many custom fields as needed to capture user information. However, it is recommended to keep these variables organized and relevant, as having too many can make your flows and data management more complex.
Some contact variables are available by default in the system, and these can be used directly in flows without the need to create them manually.**

**Below is the list of default contact variables which can be used without defining it explicitly.**

---

## Default variables

### 1. Basic Information
Values for below variables are by default updated when contact is created in the system.
- `name` - Access in flows using `@contact.name`
- `Phone` - Access in flows using `@contact.phone`
- `id` - Access in flows using `@contact.id`

### 2. Language & Demographics
The following variable values are automatically updated once the user provides their response in the flow:
- `language` - Access in flows using `@contact.language`
- `gender` - Access the gender of the contact (Female / Male / Other) using `@contact.gender`

### 3. Opt-in / Opt-out Tracking
- `optin_status` - Access the opt-in status of a contact in a flow using `@contact.optin_status`
  
Please note - 
` Consent Status` is a pre-defined variable that is used to update the consent status to `Optin / Opt out` based on the end users’ response. We can set `Consent Status` to `Optin /Opt out` from the dropdown that will automatically appear while updating this contact variable under the values. This variable cannot be referenced in the flow editor, but it can be used in `Split By` operation. Read more about `Split by` [here](https://glific.github.io/docs/docs/Product%20Features/Flows/Flow%20Actions/Split%20By/Custom%20Expression). 

`optin status` when referenced will return either (`true/false`).

- `optin_time` - Access the time when the contact opted in using `@contact.optin_time`
- `optout_time` - Access the time when the contact opted out using `@contact.optout_time`
- `optin_method` - Access the method or channel through which the contact opted in using `@contact.optin_method` (The opt-in method includes whether the user opted in via WhatsApp, a website, or other means).

### 4. WhatsApp Status
- `status` - Access the WhatsApp connection status of a contact using `@contact.status`
Possible values for status:
     - `processing` - Status verification in progress.
     - `valid` - Contact is active and reachable.
     - `invalid` - Contact number is incorrect or unreachable.
     - `blocked` - Contact has blocked the number.
     - `failed` - Message delivery failed.

- `bsp_status` - Access the Gupshup session status of a contact in a flow using @contact.bsp_status.
           Possible values for bsp_status:
     - `none` - No active session.
     - `session` - An active session is ongoing.
     - `session_and_hsm` - An active session with HSM (Highly Structured Message) enabled.
     - `hsm` - Only HSM messages are allowed.

## 5. Profiles & Groups
- `list_profiles` - Access all available profiles of a contact (all profiles linked to the user) in a flow using `@contact.list_profiles`. This has been used incase of multiple profiles.
- `in_groups` - Access the list of collections a contact is a member of in a flow using `@contact.in_groups`

## 6. Custom Fields
- `contact fields` - Access custom field values of a contact in a flow using `@contact.fields.<fieldname>.`
  (Replace `<fieldname>` with the actual name of the custom field you want to reference.)

## 7. Interaction Tracking
`last_message_at` - Access the timestamp of the contact’s last inbound message in a flow using `@contact.last_message_at`

  







